When I started meditating I was fascinated about the accounts of enlightenment. It seemed to me that suddenly people wake up into this shiny new reality.

My meditation teacher told me, that one has to die before attaining it.

I imagined it to be something very mystical. Something very secret.

I would have found it more helpful to read accounts that enlightenment is nothing more than opening your eyes and looking onto the same reality in a different way.

It's nothing more than accepting the reality exactly as it is.

With this accepting comes a spaciousness and you see the things as they truly are - without mental labeling or projections.

Enlightenment is not the abscence of thought. It's not even the abscence of sorrows. You just realize that thought is nothing special. That you are not your sorrows. You do not longer derive a sense of self from them.

And then after realize that you come to the conclusion, that even this is not true. On the one level you are your thoughts. You are your ego. And on another level you are not. You don't have to loose anything - you don't really have to die. Only your sense of self is shifting.

You don't have to become a smiling golden Buddha statue. You don't need to become a buddhist monk. You can stay who you are. Wherer you are.

You start to realize that our ordinary existence is something special. Your life is nothing that has to be fought. On the contrary. If you tasted a glimpse of enlightenment, you can relax and enjoy life.

Ordinary life becomes something very precious. The sound of rain. The smile of a child. Living together with a partner. The clouds in the sky. Being on a funeral and crying. Everything becomes precious, because you accept it for what it is.

You start to live in the present and not in horrible or happy fantasy-worlds created by your mind. You do not want to be someone else. You just stay here in the now and relax.

So it's really nothing that can be attained. It is simple. It can not be attained by adding something, but only by substraction.

That is enlightenment. Nothing mysterious at all. Its extraordinarilly ordinary.
